---
templateKey: case-study
title: Vidahora
description: 'Cultivating happy, healthy and productive workplaces with AI-driven support'
image: /img/vidahora.png
---
When you’re happy, healthy and working a job you love, productivity comes naturally—and Vidahora aims to help companies across Spain build high-quality working environments. To achieve its goal, the company uses innovative AI assistants from IBM® Watson® to answer common employee questions and track employees’ health and wellness targets.

### Business Challenge

Vidahora wanted to empower HR functions using its innovative health and wellness app to spend less time answering administrative questions from employees and more time on talent development—but how?

### Transformation

Vidahora uses IBM Watson solutions connected to application databases in the IBM Cloud™ to deliver AI assistants in its mobile app, providing employees with fast answers to frequently asked questions.

### Business challenge story

Instant connectivity on mobile devices is blurring the line between work and leisure time—and many businesses are looking for ways to help their people switch off after busy days in the office.

Vidahora, a Spain-based startup specializing in human resources (HR) solutions, knows that healthy eating, regular exercise and mindfulness techniques all play important roles in the overall health and wellbeing of a company’s employees.

Paula Martínez López, Co-Founder of Vidahora, begins: “A healthy, active lifestyle can help combat workplace stress and improve your mood. Supporting these kinds of choices makes a great deal of sense for HR functions, because it’s widely acknowledged that happy and healthy employees tend to be more engaged, satisfied and productive.”

Vidahora offers a comprehensive range of interactive solutions to help employees set, track and achieve lifestyle goals. Through a mobile app, employees can take part in gamified challenges with their colleagues to increase their number of daily steps, attend regular exercise classes and eat more healthily.

Francisco Jose Fernandez Moure, Co-Founder of Vidahora, continues: “After working with many businesses and their employees, we noticed that HR departments often spent large amounts of time on repetitive tasks, such as answering the same common questions, communicating company news and sending out information to new employees. We knew that our HR clients were keen to spend more time on developing and engaging their talent, but often there simply weren’t enough hours in the day to devote to those higher-value activities.”

To solve the challenge, Vidahora aimed to reduce its clients’ administrative workloads through automation. The company realized that if employees could pose common questions to a virtual assistant, it would free up valuable hours for HR teams and help them cultivate higher-quality working environments.

López adds: “We already offered social messaging capabilities on our app, and we knew that employees found the platform to be a natural way to communicate with their peers. We decided to build on the popularity of the feature by integrating AI assistants into our offering—and we looked for the capabilities to make our vision a reality.”
